# Data-Mining-Election-Tweets

There are two data sets used: 

election.csv (historical data) and etweets.csv (new data)

Both are too large to be included in the github repository.

Abstract:

We will collect status updates, called "Tweets" from the social media platform Twitter, and discuss the full process of obtaining Tweets, exploring the data, determining our hypotheses about the data, cleaning the data, visualization of the data, and finally draw some conclusions about our findings. We will use the 2020 Presidential election to narrow down our key word search, so each Tweet collected should pertain to the election. R software will be used to explore the features and content of the collected data. Once we have an idea of how the raw data was structured, we came up with three hypotheses: the distribution of Tweet frequency would vary by day and time; if the words in the Tweet text and hashtag text would reflect current election news at the time; and if Donald Trump was the most retweeted or quoted Twitter user in the realm of election Tweets. Keeping the hypotheses in mind, we decided on what information to keep and what kind of visualizations we wanted to use. Based on what we learned in data exploration and our hypotheses we could begin data cleaning and preprocessing. We broke down the preprocessing of the data into five basic steps, covered the R packages and code used to get the data in a form that is best for each visualization technique, as well as explain the purpose of each preprocessing step. In the visualization section we present three types of visualization each meant to offer insight into each of our hypotheses: a histogram of the Tweet frequencies; bar charts for the word frequencies in Tweets and hashtags; and word clouds of the  most retweeted and quoted users from the historical and new data sets. Based on our visualizations, we determined that our hypothesis about Tweet distribution appeared to be incorrect, since Tweets were distributed uniformly over the time intervals. We cautiously accept our second and third hypotheses to be backed up by our visualizations, but we did find some interesting anomalies in the data.